Hungary withdraws from International Criminal Court during Netanyahu visit

The move was announced hours after Israel's leader Benjamin Netanyahu, who is sought under an ICC arrest warrant, arrived in Hungary for a state visit

In November, ICC judges said there were "reasonable grounds" that Netanyahu bore "criminal responsibility" for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity during the war between Israel and Hamas. Netanyahu has condemned the ICC's decision as "antisemitic".

Orban had invited Netanyahu as soon as the warrant was issued last November, saying the ruling would have "no effect" in his country.

A senior official in Prime Minister Viktor Orban's government confirmed this hours after Israel's leader Benjamin Netanyahu, who is sought under an ICC arrest warrant, arrived in Hungary for a state visit.

Hungary is withdrawing from the International Criminal Court (ICC), its government has announced.

The ICC, a global court, has the authority to prosecute those accused of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes.

Hungary is a founding member of the ICC, which counts 125 member states, and will be the first European Union nation to pull out of it. A withdrawal has no impact on ongoing proceedings.

During a joint press conference, Orban asserted that the ICC had become a "political court". He added the court's decision to issue a warrant against the Israeli leader "clearly showed" this.

Netanyahu meanwhile hailed Hungary's "bold and principled" decision to withdraw from the court.

"It's important for all democracies. It's important to stand up to this corrupt organisation," Netanyahu said.

A statement from the Israeli prime minister's office on Thursday said Netanyahu and Orban had spoken with US President Donald Trump about the decision and the "next steps that can be taken on this issue".

Earlier Israel's Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar thanked Orban on X for his "clear and strong moral stance alongside Israel".

"The so-called International Criminal Court lost its moral authority after trampling the fundamental principles of international law in its zest for harming Israel's right to self-defence," Sa'ar added.

Hungary's decision aligns with its broader foreign policy stance under Orban, who has cultivated close ties with Israel and adopted a critical view of international institutions perceived as infringing on national sovereignty.

While Hungary's withdrawal may carry symbolic weight and political implications, it does not significantly alter the ICC's operational capacity or legal framework.

The court has faced similar challenges in the past and continues to function with broad international support.

But Hungary's criticism of the ICC as "politically biased" and its decision to withdraw as Netanyahu visits may set a precedent for other nations to question or abandon their commitments to international justice based on political alliances or disagreements with specific rulings.

The US, Russia, China and North Korea are among the nations that are not part of the ICC, and therefore do not recognise its jurisdiction.

Israel is also not part of the treaty, but the ICC ruled in 2021 that it did have jurisdiction over the occupied West Bank, East Jerusalem and Gaza, because the UN's Secretary General had accepted that Palestinians were a member.

Hungary now needs to send written notification to the UN Secretary General to leave the treaty, with the withdrawal taking effect one year later, according to article 127 of the Rome Statute, which established the ICC.

ICC spokesman Fadi El-Abdullah told the BBC: "On the visit of Mr Netanyahu, the court has followed its standard procedures, after the issuance of an arrest warrant. The court recalls that Hungary remains under a duty to cooperate with the ICC."

Since the warrant was issued, Hungarian authorities should technically arrest Netanyahu and hand him over to the court in the Hague, although member states do not always choose to enforce ICC warrants.

In Europe, some ICC member states said they would arrest the Israeli leader if he set foot in their country, while others, including Germany, announced that Netanyahu would not be detained if he visited.

But Germany's Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said on Thursday Hungary's announcement was "a bad day for international criminal law".

"Europe has clear rules that apply to all EU member states, and that is the Rome Statute. I have made it clear time and again that no one in Europe is above the law and that applies to all areas of law," she added.

On the other side of the Atlantic, the US has condemned the ICC's decision to issue warrants for Netanyahu's arrest and he has visited the country since it was issued in November. His visit to Hungary marks Netanyahu's first trip to Europe since then.

Hungarian Defence Minister Kristof Szalay-Bobrovniczky, greeted Netanyahu on the tarmac of Budapest airport on Wednesday night, welcoming him to the country.

CNN —

The bodies of more than a dozen aid workers have been recovered in southern Gaza from what a United Nations agency described as a “mass grave,” a week after they went missing following attacks by Israeli forces.

Eight of the 14 bodies recovered Sunday from the site in the southern Rafah area were identified as members of the Palestine Red Crescent Society (PRCS), five as civil defense, and one as a UN agency employee, PRCS said in a statement. One PRCS medic remains missing.

The body of a fifteenth person, a civil defense worker, was recovered last Thursday from the site, after PRCS said they were initially denied access to the area. CNN has reached out to the Israeli military.

Last week, PRCS said nine of its emergency medical technicians had been missing since March 23 following an incident in which Israeli forces fired on ambulances and fire trucks in southern Rafah.

An Israeli military official told CNN Wednesday that its forces did bury the bodies of the aid workers because the troops expected it would take time to coordinate their retrieval with the PRCS and the United Nations.

In another statement on Wednesday, the Israeli military said it will investigate the deadly attack.

“The incident from March 23rd, 2025, in which IDF forces opened fire targeting terrorists advancing in ambulances, has been transferred to the General Staff’s Fact-Finding and Assessment Mechanism for investigation,” an IDF spokesperson told CNN in a statement, adding that the military “places utmost importance on maintaining communication with international organizations operating in Gaza and engages with them regularly.”

A day earlier IDF spokesman Lt. Col. Nadav Shoshani insisted the IDF “did not randomly attack an ambulance” and claimed without evidence that nine “terrorists” had been killed.

Aid organizations and the UN have expressed outrage over the attacks, which the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent said were the “single most deadly” for IFRC workers in almost a decade.

“This massacre of our team is a tragedy not only for us at the Palestine Red Crescent Society, but also for humanitarian work and humanity,” PCRS said in its statement, calling the targeting of its medics “a war crime” punishable under international law.

The attacks come amid Israel’s renewed assault on the enclave and as its complete blockade of humanitarian aid nears the one-month mark.

Buried beneath the sand

OCHA, the UN’s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, said the bodies were recovered after a “complex, week-long rescue operation” that involved using bulldozers and heavy machinery to unearth the victims and their battered vehicles from under sand.

“Health workers should never be a target. And yet, we’re here today, digging up a mass grave of first responders and paramedics,” Jonathan Whittall, the head of UNOCHA in the occupied Palestinian territories, said from the site.

Video shared by the UNOCHA showed a bulldozer digging through dirt and moving debris as emergency responders used shovels to reach the victims. Several bodies were seen being pulled from sand, some wearing PRCS vests and showing signs of decomposition.

Medical workers mourn as the bodies of 8 PRCS EMTs, 6 Civil Defense staff, and 1 UN worker were recovered on Sunday in Rafah, Gaza. PRCS

Early information indicates the first team of aid workers dispatched to the area were killed by Israeli forces on March 23 and other emergency aid crews were struck over the following several hours as they searched for their missing colleagues, UNOCHA said.

“One by one, they were hit, they were struck, their bodies were gathered and buried,” Whittall said. “We’re digging them out in their uniforms, with their gloves on.”

Ambulances, as well as UN and civil defense vehicles, were found crushed and buried under the sand, Whittall added, accusing Israeli forces of trying to cover up the scene.

CNN has reached out to the Israeli military for comment.

According to the PRCS, their aid workers were dispatched to Rafah’s Al-Hashashin area on March 23 to respond to Israeli attacks when they came under assault.

“Israeli forces besieged the area, leading to (the) complete loss of communication with our teams,” PRCS said.

Hours later, Gaza’s Civil Defense said that six of its staff also went missing after being dispatched to the same area following what it described as a “sudden incursion by the Israeli occupation forces, the killing and injuring of dozens, and the besieging” of PRCS vehicles.

The Israeli military told CNN earlier its forces had opened fire that day at “suspicious vehicles,” including ambulances and fire trucks, that were advancing toward troops without prior coordination, use of headlights or emergency signals.

It said it had “eliminated” a number of Hamas and Islamic Jihad militants by firing on the vehicles and condemned what it claimed was “the repeated use of civilian infrastructure by the terrorist organizations in the Gaza Strip, including the use of medical facilities and ambulances for terrorist purposes.”

Search crews use a bulldozer to search for the victims through sand on Thursday in southern Rafah. Courtesy OCHA

The attacks came less than a week after Israel renewed its assault across the strip on March 18, breaking a weeks-long ceasefire with Hamas. Since then, Israeli attacks have killed at least 921 Palestinians and injured more than 2,000 others, according to the Hamas-controlled Gaza Ministry of Health. CNN has no way of independently verifying the numbers and the Israeli government does not allow foreign journalists to independently enter Gaza.

More than 80 people were killed in Gaza following Israeli strikes on Sunday and Monday, medics and health authorities in the enclave said. Dr. Marwan El-Hems, director of field hospitals in Gaza, told CNN that he estimated that 83 to 85 people had been killed because of Israeli military activity since Sunday morning. The total included about 30 on Monday morning.

The news also follows Israel’s decision before the ceasefire collapsed to block humanitarian aid from entering the enclave, in what it described as a move to pressure Hamas into accepting new terms for an extension of the ceasefire rather than proceed with phase two of the truce.

UNOCHA and aid groups accuse Israel of violating international law by blocking the flow of aid into Gaza and of using starvation as a weapon of war. The same organizations have accused Israel of restricting or creating hurdles to the entry of aid throughout the war.

‘Health services must be protected’

International aid and humanitarian organizations have repeatedly condemned the Israeli military’s attacks on medical facilities and personnel.

“Even in the most complex conflict zones, there are rules. These rules of International Humanitarian Law could not be clearer – civilians must be protected; humanitarians must be protected. Health services must be protected,” Jagan Chapagain, Secretary General of the IFRC, said in a statement on Sunday.

Hospitals in Gaza – including Nasser Medical Complex, the enclave’s largest functioning hospital – have seen intense bombardment and raids from Israeli forces accusing the facilities of harboring Hamas operatives.

About 400 aid workers, including teachers, doctors and nurses, have been killed in Israeli attacks in the enclave since October 7, 2023, according to OCHA’s latest update released Tuesday. The PRCS says the number of its staff killed in line of duty by Israeli forces in Gaza since October 2023 has now reached 27.

“The occupation’s targeting of Red Crescent medics … can only be considered a war crime punishable under international humanitarian law, which the occupation continues to violate before the eyes of the entire world,” PCRS said.

Meanwhile, Gaza health officials said the death toll in Gaza since October 7 has surpassed 50,000, marking a grim milestone for a war with no end in sight.

This story has been updated.

Canada’s exemption from Donald Trump’s global tariffs was “like dodging a bullet into the path of a tank”, say business leaders as other levies are poised to hit key industries that drive the country’s economy.

In a theatrical unveiling of tariffs on countries with “unfair” practices on Wednesday afternoon, Canada was noticeably absent, alongside trade ally Mexico.

But speaking to reporters on Parliament Hill, prime minister Mark Carney said 25% tariffs on Canadian steel and aluminum, as well as on automobiles, will come into effect within hours.

Canada would “fight these measures with countermeasures” he said, ahead of a meeting with cabinet ministers. “In a crisis, it’s important to come together. It’s essential to act with purpose and with force and that’s what we’ll do.”

Already, Canada had put a 25% tax on C$30bn ($21bn) worth of US goods in response to Trump’s tariffs. Among the products targeted are spirits, wine and orange juice – items meant to inflict targeted economic pain. The federal government has repeatedly pledged to keep its retaliatory measures until the US lifts all levies on Canadian products.

Carney warned that while Trump had preserved key elements of the bilateral relationship, the global tariffs announced earlier in the day “fundamentally change the international trading system”.

The prime minister is expected to outline the next stages of Canada’s response on Thursday. According to the prime minister’s office, a meeting of Carney’s cabinet will follow. The Liberal leader is also expected to meet virtually with Canada’s premiers.

Flavio Volpe, president of the Automotive Parts Manufacturers’ Association posted on social media the result was “like dodging a bullet into the path of a tank”.

“The. Auto. Tariff. Package. Will. Shut. Down. The. Auto. Sector. In. The. USA. And. In. Canada,” he wrote. “Don’t be distracted. 25% tariffs are 4 times the 6/7% profit margins of all the companies. Math, not art.”

Candace Laing, head of Canada’s Chamber of Commerce said in a statement the world was “waking up today to a reality that Canada has been living with for months” and that the tariffs mean businesses around the world “have had their uncertainty expanded … chain reaction of tariffs and counter-tariffs will have a real and distressing economic impact on Americans, Canadians and the global economy.”

It is unclear the extent to which an “extremely productive” telephone call between Trump and Carney last week influenced the decision to grant a reprieve to Canada. The call, requested by the White House, was the first time the two leaders have spoken since Carney became prime minister on 14 March.

Carney had previously said he would not speak to the president until Trump showed respect for Canada’s independence. “I’m available for a call, but we’re going to talk on our terms. As a sovereign country – not as what he pretends we are – and on a comprehensive deal.”

The sprawling tariffs, some of which apply to remote and uninhabited islands, have rattled markets and Canadian officials were planning for levies that could devastate manufacturing hubs and resource-based economies.

“The positive thing that I saw was we weren’t on that list,” Ontario premier Doug Ford told reporters at Queen’s Park. “Let’s hope that there’s some positive news coming.”

The much-hyped announcement from the White House has already thrown a wrench in the federal election campaign. Carney flew from Winnipeg back to Ottawa on Tuesday night in order to convene a virtual meeting of business and union leaders who are part of the Canada-US Relations Council.

In a handout, the White House said the president’s use of the international emergency economic powers act remained in effect – a declaration made in reference to the alleged movement of both migrants and fentanyl over the border.

None of the items that comply with the continental free trade agreement will be taxed, the White House said, but “non-compliant goods” will have a 25% levy and energy and potash products will have a 10% tariff imposed. If the emergency order was rescinded, all “non-compliant” goods would face a 12% tax.

The news pushed Canada’s dollar up, a currency that has over the last few months been depressed by the ongoing trade war.

Canada has repeatedly argued a minuscule amount of the fentanyl in the US from the north. In new figures published by the Globe and Mail, the US border agency attributed less than one pound of seized fentanyl to Canada, or 0.13% of all seizures.

Canada’s efforts to reach key voices in the US has met some success. On Wednesday evening, a bipartisan group of senators passed a resolution to end the national fentanyl emergency the president invoked earlier this year in order to justify the 25% tax on Canadian imports.

The move, which attracted Republican senators Mitch McConnell, Susan Collins, Lisa Murkowski and Rand Paul to across the political aisle, is seen as a strong rebuke to Trump. But the vote is likely to be largely symbolic. House speaker Mike Johnson is unlikely to bring the measure to a vote.